---
title: "Who are you really?"
date: 2019-01-01T09:43:16Z
tags: ['gpg']
categories: ['Identity', 'GitHub', 'GitLab']
---

How do you know who you're talking to is really the person you think you're talking to? I came across [Keybase](https://keybase.io/) recently and liked their way of securing chat messages between people on the internet. To verify the identity of people with whom you establish contact online, Keybase checks a selection of their online identities. (For more, check out https://keybase.io/blog/keybase-chat.)  I digress. It reminded me that I have yet to set up a GPG key to sign my commits to public repositories.

> Rick Blaine: "Who are you really and what were you before? What did you do and what did you think?"
>
>> &mdash; _Casablanca_ (1942)

### The Gist
While your repository host (GitHub, GitLab etc.) knows it's you who've pushed the commits once an authenticated session has been established, no one else does. To ensure others know that it's you who've made those commits, you can "sign" them then the commits can be verified. The most popular way of doing this is to use GNU Privacy Guard (GPG).

----

:bell: I used Windows Subsystem for Linux on Windows 10 today. :bell:

----

__gpg__ is usually installed in most Linux distributions so I didn't have to install it myself. The first thing I did was:

```bash
gpg --gen-key
```

This creates a GPG key with the default settings. For a more concise way of generating a GPG key, [this GitHub page](https://help.github.com/articles/generating-a-new-gpg-key/) has the steps. After generating the key, I copied and pasted the public key to GitHub.com.

To back up the key and/or use it on another machine, I did the following:

```bash
gpg --export-secret-keys MY_KEY_ID > gpg-key.asc
```

As recommended by most guides, I created a revocation certificate as well.

```bash
gpg --output gpg-revocation.asc --gen-revoke MY_KEY_ID
```

To import the back-up key, I did the following:

```bash
gpg --import gpg-key.asc
gpg --edit-key MY_KEY_ID
```

This will be followed by a prompt from GPG.

```bash
gpg> trust
Your decision? 5 (Ultimate trust)
```

That didn't take long. Just one more step... update the Git global configurations so I don't have to remember to tell Git to sign each commit.

```bash
git config --global user.signingkey MY_KEY_ID
git config --global commit.gpgsign true

# ensure that the email set for git is the same
# as the one used for the key
git config --global user.email MY_EMAIL
```

That's it! Now every time I make a commit, it's also signed.

### Notes
* To verify the signature of a commit, this can be done like so:
    ```bash
    git log --show-signature -1
    ```
* I encountered an error during a git commit and found that I had to do the following:
  
    ```bash
    export GPG_TTY=$(tty)
    ```

    Instead of doing this every shell session, I added this to the end of ~/.bashrc. An interesting reading about this can be found [here](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/41052538/git-error-gpg-failed-to-sign-data).
